# Boundary numbers

## Defintions

We define the _boundary number_ of a shell to be the greatest number in that
shell, so-called as it marks the boundary between two successive shells when
following the spiral from the center.

We can see by inspection that boundary numbers of $S_0$, $S_1$, and $S_3$ are 0,
9, 25, and 49. Noting that this is simply the sequence of squares of odd
numbers, in general, the boundary number for $S_n$ is
simply

$$ b(n) = (2n + 1)^2 $$

The inverse [fn:1] of this function 

$$ b^{-1}(S) = \frac{1}{2} (\sqrt{x} - 1) $$

will, given a boundary number, yield its shell number.


Further treatment of this function is required should we wish to find the shell
number of _any_ number, not just a boundary number.

## Finding Boundary numbers

A commonly known method of finding the _next closest_ square of some real number
$x$ is to compute $ceil *{\sqrt{x}} ^ 2$. A back of napkin proof of this would
look something like: A square number is one whose square root is an integer. The
ceiling of $x$ is the next nearest integer to $x$. Thus the ceiling of
the square root of $x$ is the next nearest integer to its square root, i.e. the
next nearest square root of a square number. Thus, the square of this will be
the next nearest square to $x$.


We will use a similar technique to find the next nearest boundary number.
Noting that the boundary numbers are in fact the squares of odd numbers,
generated by $(2x+n)^2$, and following the same logic as the previous proof, it
stands to -weasel- reason that, as the next nearest square to $x$ is the square
of the ceiling of the root of x, the next nearest odd square will be UNFINISHED! LOL

\pagebreak
